---
layout: capability-content
style: 'ct-vertical-spacing--bottom ct-basic-content'
description_from_parent: true
parent_path: 'quantum-computing'
title: 'Quantum Computing'
url: '/'
domain: ''
toc: ''
content_top: true
aga_code: 'STA60'
type: 'AGA Standard'
---

<p>Quantum computing solutions can facilitate the exceptional processing of vast amounts of Commonwealth data, as well as enabling improved data security. The recent trend towards direct incorporation of machine learning and large language model systems has the potential to be massively enhanced by the computation power afforded by quantum computing connectivity and processing.</p><p>As an emerging technology, practical approaches to application of quantum computing are yet to be formed and this standard will be reviewed as progress demands.</p><h2>Comply with legislation</h2><p>Entities must:</p><ul><li>comply with relevant Commonwealth legislation including (but not limited to):<ul><li><em>Archives Act 1983&nbsp;</em>(Cth)</li><li><em>Data Availability and Transparency</em> (DAT) <em>Act 2002</em> (Cth)</li><li><em>Privacy Act 1988</em> (Cth)</li></ul></li><li>comply with any other legislation applicable to specific functions and circumstances.</li></ul><h2>Align to best practice and Commonwealth guidelines and standards</h2><p>Entities must:</p><ul><li>apply the principles and requirements of the <a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/protective-security-policy-framework-pspf">Protective Security Policy Framework</a> throughout their organisation, including in the context of quantum computing</li><li>not violate the <a href="https://www.defence.gov.au/business-industry/exporting/export-controls-framework">Department of Defence’s export controls</a> on quantum computing technology (as a regulated dual-use technology on the Defence and Strategic Goods List).</li></ul><p>Entities should:</p><ul><li>abide by the principles outlined in <a href="https://www.industry.gov.au/publications/guiding-principles-global-quantum-ecosystem-informed-science">Guiding principles for a global quantum ecosystem informed by science | Department of Industry Science and Resources</a></li><li>maintain awareness of other relevant guidelines, including standards and frameworks, as they are developed across government and in the academic sector.</li></ul><h2>Understand the evolving Commonwealth quantum computing technology environment</h2><p>Entities should, prior to any internal initiation of quantum research or other investment, engage with the several principal owners that have responsibility for shaping and developing quantum capability, including:</p><ul><li>The Department of Industry Science and Resources (DISR) which has overall responsibility for Commonwealth policy on quantum. Sitting within this portfolio are the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (ANSTO), which has a focus on developing quantum for research purposes, and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) which is investigating the commercialisation of quantum research opportunities.</li><li>DISR in conjunction with the Office of the Chief Scientist were also responsible for shaping and releasing the National Quantum Strategy which was designed to strengthen Australia’s research position while promoting opportunities for commercialisation.</li><li>The Department of Defence has a special interest in quantum sensing and the use cryptography. Defence’s Next Generations Technology Fund was launched in 2018 to support the development of insights into quantum technologies, with a specific focus on defence related application.</li></ul><h2>Leverage quantum opportunities for government</h2><p>Entities investing in quantum should consider the ways in which their investment will fit into the Commonwealth’s enabling of a range of opportunities including:</p><ul><li><strong>Enabling research:</strong> Through Australian Research Council grants and the utilisation of ANSTO and the CSIRO the Commonwealth can bolster the effort going into basic research. This opportunity will allow the government to potentially recoup investment in new research for business and service enablement.</li><li><strong>Realising economic benefits:</strong> Based on a history of quantum innovation there are promising signs for a self-sufficient ecosystem of quantum businesses in Australia. If the government can invest in skills development and the access to emerging quantum technology the conditions favour new business development.</li><li><strong>Prioritising cybersecurity:</strong> Quantum computing is both a threat and a mitigant to securing data stores and data flow. Quantum cryptography has the potential to secure both data areas. Future Commonwealth regulation is recommended to ensure upgraded security capability, as well as advancing the ability to secure its own systems and information flows.</li><li><strong>Supporting global collaboration</strong>: Australia does not yet have the capabilities to scale research into innovation by itself. By capitalising on significant international engagement Government entities can leverage international relationships to build links between researchers.</li></ul><h2>Recognise the forecast timeframe for the development of quantum related technology solutions</h2><p>Quantum technologies are developing rapidly, and while the full functionality of quantum computing is still emerging, others are already in everyday use.</p><p>Entities should:</p><ul><li>be aware that different technologies will mature and be ready for commercial applications at different times over the next 10 years, and beyond</li><li>align to the <a href="https://www.industry.gov.au/publications/national-quantum-strategy/quantum-technologies">National Quantum Strategy</a>, which forecasts the evolution of a range of quantum specific functions over the next 20+ years.</li></ul><h2>Ensure the sustainability of quantum computing solutions</h2><p>As an emerging technology, there is critical obligation on entities to take a forward-minded view to investment.</p><p>Entities should:</p><ul><li>develop an internal quantum strategy and policy prior, or equivalent, to set clear direction in advance of any other works</li><li>ensure that their selected solution is supportable, affordable, secure, and fit-for-purpose</li><li>comprehensively document any work in quantum computing, and make this documentation available to other entities</li><li>continuously review outcomes against strategic direction, assessing against outcomes and costs, and change direction proactively rather than reflexively.</li></ul><h2>Adhere to reuse principles</h2><p>The Australian Government Architecture provides information for entities on <a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/reuse-standard">Reuse</a>.</p><p>Entities should:</p><ul><li>compare their requirements with those of other comparable entities and system functions, and seek to reuse learnings from preceding implementations</li><li>consider specific functional and non-functional requirements prior to solution design or consideration of technology choice, including:<ul><li>auditability requirements of use cases, processes and/or outcomes</li><li>privacy requirements of individuals, organisations, processes, or intellectual property</li><li>security needs, particularly if the system contains sensitive or personally identifying data or is otherwise likely a target for threat actors</li><li>availability/redundancy, especially in the case of systems supporting round-the-clock needs such as medical or emergency service activities</li></ul></li><li>meet the requirements of the <a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/digital-and-ict-reuse-policy">Digital and ICT Reuse Policy</a>.</li></ul>