---
layout: capability-content
style: 'ct-vertical-spacing--bottom ct-basic-content'
description_from_parent: true
parent_path: 'grant-management'
title: 'Grant management'
url: '/'
domain: ''
toc: ''
content_top: true
aga_code: 'STA36'
type: 'AGA Standard'
---

<p>Grant management systems enable&nbsp;the administration of grants throughout their entire lifecycles. Functions include processing grant applications, assessment of eligibility, management of grant funding, tracking of grants and grant programs, auditing, and reporting. These functions are common to many government agencies, and many solutions are highly adaptable.</p><p>Grants are administered by responsible agencies following the&nbsp;<a href="https://www.finance.gov.au/government/commonwealth-grants">Commonwealth Grants Rules and Principles 2024 (CGRPs).</a>&nbsp;CGRPs contain the key legislative policy requirements and explain the better practices and principles of grants administration.&nbsp;</p><h2>Publish on GrantConnect&nbsp;</h2><p><a href="https://www.grants.gov.au/">GrantConnect</a> is the centralised location for publishing Australian Government grant opportunities and awards. The system contains information that can be used to search for new grant opportunities, find out who has been awarded grants, and watch for future programs. It is a requirement of the CGRPs that grant opportunities are published on GrantConnect, and that agencies report (on GrantConnect) information on grants no later than twenty-one calendar days after the grant agreement takes effect.</p><h2>Reuse existing designs, patterns and investment</h2><p>In addition to GrantConnect, the Commonwealth has established two centralised grants hubs to be operated as shared service arrangements, providing grants administration services to client entities. These hubs increase consistency in the administration and management of grants to support more connected and seamless government services, reduce systems risk in the application of proven designs and achieve financial efficiencies through economies of scale. The two central grant hubs are:</p><ul><li><a href="https://www.communitygrants.gov.au/"><strong>Community Grants Hub</strong></a> – administers mainly community-based grants on behalf of Australian Government departments, agencies and organisations.</li><li><a href="https://www.industry.gov.au/government-government/grant-design-and-delivery-services"><strong>Business Grants Hub</strong></a> – administers mainly business-based grants on behalf of Australian Government departments, agencies, and organisations.</li></ul><p>Under the shared service arrangements, client agencies are responsible for grant policy and the development of grant programs, while the hubs are responsible for administering grant programs at the direction of policy owners and consistent with the requirements of the CGRPs.&nbsp;</p><p>Agencies should use the appropriate grant hubs except where there is a specific reason to not do so.&nbsp;<br><br>For enquiries relating to Commonwealth grants administration arrangements and the relevant estimates memorandum, please contact&nbsp;<a href="mailto:grantsadmin@finance.gov.au">grantsadmin@finance.gov.au</a>.</p><p>In addition to the grant hubs, several alternative technology solutions may be considered for future consolidation exist in the Commonwealth landscape. These alternatives may help achieve consistency in existing practices and simplify future consolidation where onboarding to the grant hubs is not mandatory and represent program risks due to timeframes or technical interoperability complexities. Most available solutions are highly configurable and can support numerous variances in:</p><ul><li>process</li><li>workflow</li><li>data collection templates</li></ul><h2>Build for reuse</h2><p>Where reuse has not been determined viable, agencies should provide evidence of which systems have been investigated and demonstrate how any new investment may be extensible and operationalised for reuse.</p><p>Implementing a grant management system with broad applicability across agencies is critical for reducing risk, increasing efficiency and supporting consistent implementation of grant programs across government.</p><p>Any new system should be designed with a modular and scalable architecture, allowing for future integration into other agency structures. Emphasising interoperability and standardisation in technologies and data formats ensures adaptability across different agencies. Additionally, user-friendly interfaces and comprehensive documentation facilitates ease of implementation and use streamlining processes and promoting consistency across agencies.</p><h2>Engage the Department of Finance</h2><p>Non-corporate Commonwealth entities who want to develop their own grant management platform should contact the Department of Finance in the first instance.</p><p>For all enquiries relating to grant management please visit <a href="https://www.finance.gov.au/government/commonwealth-grants">Commonwealth Grants</a>.&nbsp;</p>