---
layout: capability-content
style: 'ct-vertical-spacing--bottom ct-basic-content'
description_from_parent: true
parent_path: 'trusted-digital-identity-framework'
title: 'Trusted Digital Identity Framework (TDIF)'
url: '/'
domain: ''
toc: ''
content_top: true
aga_code: 'STA7'
type: 'AGA Standard'
---

<p class="callout-box">The TDIF has been superseded by the <a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/design/agdis">Australian Government Digital ID System</a> (AGDIS) and a new accreditation scheme established by the Digital ID Act 2024.</p><p>Direct link:&nbsp;<a href="https://webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20241015062351/https:/www.digitalidsystem.gov.au/tdif/tdifdocs"><em>webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20241015062351/https:/www.digitalidsystem.gov.au/tdif/tdifdocs</em></a><br>Responsible agency: <strong>Department of Finance</strong><br>Last updated: <strong>1 December 2024</strong></p><p>The Trusted Digital Identity Framework (TDIF) was an Australian Government accreditation framework for providing digital identity services. A voluntary scheme, the TDIF set out rules and standards around privacy, security, transparency, trust and choice to be followed by accredited organisations.</p><p>Based on globally recognised best practices and standards, the TDIF informed the development of the Digital ID Act 2024. &nbsp;</p><h2>Applicability</h2><p>The TDIF has been superseded by the <a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/design/agdis">Australian Government Digital ID System</a> (AGDIS) and a new accreditation scheme established by the Digital ID Act 2024.</p><h2>TDIF Identity Proofing Levels</h2><p>Identity Proofing Levels were an accreditation standard within the TDIF.</p><h3>Identity Proofing Level 1</h3><p>Identity Proofing Level 1 (IP1)&nbsp;was used when no identity verification was needed or when a very low level of confidence in the claimed identity was needed. This level supported self-asserted identity (I am who I say I am) or pseudonymous identity.&nbsp;</p><p>IP1 was for services where the risks of not undertaking identity verification would have a negligible consequence to the individual or the service. For example, to pay a parking infringement or obtain a fishing licence.</p><h3>Identity Proofing Level 1 Plus</h3><p>Identity Proofing Level 1 Plus (IP1 Plus)&nbsp;was used when a low level of confidence in the claimed identity was needed. This required one identity document to verify a claim to an existing identity.&nbsp;</p><p>IP1 Plus was for services where the risks of getting identity verification wrong would have minor consequences to the individual or the service. For example, the provision of loyalty cards.</p><h3>Identity Proofing Level 2</h3><p>Identity Proofing Level 2 (IP2) was used when a low-medium level of confidence in the claimed identity was needed. It required two or more identity documents to verify a claim to an existing identity.&nbsp;</p><p>IP2 was for services where the risks of getting identity verification wrong would have moderate consequences to the individual or the service. For example, the provision of utility services. An Identity Proofing Level 2 Identity check was similar to the traditional “100-point check”.</p><h3>Identity Proofing Level 2 Plus</h3><p>Identity Proofing Level 2 Plus (IP 2 Plus) was used when a medium level of confidence in the claimed identity was needed. It required two or more identity documents to verify a claim to an existing identity and required the binding objective to be met.&nbsp;</p><p>IP2 Plus was for services where the risks of getting identity verification wrong would have moderate-high consequences to the individual or the service. For example, undertaking large financial transactions.</p><h3>Identity Proofing Level 3</h3><p>Identity Proofing Level 3 (IP 3) was used when a high level of confidence in the claimed identity was needed. It required two or more identity documents to verify a claim to an existing identity and required the binding objective to be met.&nbsp;</p><p>IP3 was for services where the risks of getting identity verification wrong would have high consequences to the individual or the service. For example, access to welfare and related government services.</p><h3>Identity Proofing Level 4 (IP 4)</h3><p>Identity Proofing Level 4 (IP 4) was used when a very high level of confidence in the claimed identity was needed. It required four or more identity documents to verify a claim to an existing identity. The individual claiming the identity had to attend an in-person interview and meet the requirements of IP 3.&nbsp;</p><p>IP 4 was for services where the risks of getting identity verification wrong would have very high consequences to the individual or the service. For example, the issuing of government-issued documents like an Australian passport.</p><h2>TDIF Credential Levels</h2><p>Credential Levels were an accreditation standard within the TDIF.</p><h3>Credential Level 1</h3><p>Credential Level 1 (CL1) provided a basic authentication credential suitable for use at the IP1 proofing level. This allowed single-factor authentication, e.g. password.</p><h3>Credential Level 2&nbsp;</h3><p>Credential Level 2 (CL2) provided a strong authentication credential suitable at the IP1, IP2 and IP3 proofing levels. This required two-factor authentication, e.g. password with additional one-time password.</p><h3>Credential Level 3</h3><p>Credential Level 3 (CL3) provided a very strong authentication credential, suitable at the IP1, IP2, IP3 and IP4 levels. This required two-factor authentication and hardware verification.</p><h2>Accreditation Standards</h2><h3>Attribution Provider&nbsp;</h3><p>Attribute Provider was an accreditation standard within the TDIF.&nbsp;</p><p>Attributes are additional information about a person or business such as entitlements or characteristics (for example, that an individual had a particular qualification). Attribute providers generated and managed attributes and claims about an individual, business or organisation that were provided to reliant services.</p><h3>Identity Exchange</h3><p>The TDIF Identity Exchange was an accreditation standard within the TDIF. It was an entity that had been accredited in accordance with the TDIF as an identity exchange and that provided a service that conveyed, managed and coordinated the flow of data or other information between participants in an Identity Federation.</p>