---
layout: capability-content
style: 'ct-vertical-spacing--bottom ct-basic-content'
description_from_parent: true
parent_path: 'enterprise-resource-planning-erp-travel-and-expense-management-system-tems'
title: 'Enterprise resource planning (ERP) travel and expense management system (TEMS)'
url: '/'
domain: ''
toc: ''
content_top: true
aga_code: 'STA45'
type: 'AGA Standard'
---

<p>A Travel and Expense System supports Travel and Expense Management (TEMS) capability in allowing the Australian Public Sector (APS) to streamline, automate, and effectively manage the complexities associated with travel planning, expense reimbursement, relocation, and financial tracking.</p><p>TEMS capability refers to the software and systems designed to manage and optimise the travel and expense management aspects of operating in the Australian Government’s ERP environment. It integrates with several travel and credit related provider systems, to enable APS staff to manage budgets and expenditure related to local and domestic travel and miscellaneous expenses.</p><p>TEMS integrates functionalities for:</p><ul><li><strong>Travel Booking and Authorisation:</strong> Centralised planning and booking with adherence to policies and budget constraints.</li><li><strong>Expense Management:</strong> Structured submission, validation, approval, and reimbursement, reducing errors and overhead.</li><li><strong>Policy Compliance:</strong> Enforcing adherence to government regulations and transparency requirements.</li><li><strong>Audit and Reporting:</strong> Robust tracking and analysis of expenses, ensuring transparency and accountability.</li><li><strong>Integration with Financial Systems:</strong> Facilitating accurate accounting and budgeting.</li><li><strong>Mobile Accessibility:</strong> Enabling convenient management of travel plans and expenses.</li></ul><p>This standard is limited to the TEMS sub-capability, and should be viewed within the context of the overarching&nbsp;<a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/enterprise-resource-planning-standard">Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Standard</a>, and alongside those aligned to the other defined ERP value streams:</p><ul><li><a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/erp-finance-standard">ERP Finance Standard</a></li><li><a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/erp-human-capital-management-standard">ERP Human Capital Management (HCM) Standard</a></li><li><a href="https://architecture.digital.gov.au/erp-procurement-standard">ERP Procurement Standard</a></li></ul><p>Travel and Expense Management (TEMS) capability can be implemented through several commercial platform solutions. These platforms may be discovered in multiple ways such as: BuyICT; whole of Australian-Government contracts; and entity implemented solutions underpinned by platforms.</p><p>Efficient TEMS capability is crucial for Commonwealth entities, optimising travel planning, expense management, and reimbursement processes. Through automation and policy enforcement, it boosts operational efficiency, transparency, and oversight. Real-time spending insights empower informed decision-making, supported by rigorous audit trails ensuring compliance and accountability. Ultimately, it fosters cost-effectiveness and resource optimisation.</p><p>This capability plays a pivotal role in delivering functionality and value for Commonwealth entities by providing a tailored suite of tools and processes, including:</p><ul><li><strong>Efficiency and Streamlining:</strong> Automating travel planning, booking, expense submission, and reimbursement processes reduces manual effort and enhances overall productivity.</li><li><strong>Policy Adherence and Compliance:</strong> Embedding government regulations and policies into workflows ensures transparency and accountability in spending.</li><li><strong>Real-time Visibility and Control:</strong> Integration with financial systems provides insights into spending data, facilitating informed decision-making and budget utilisation.</li><li><strong>Accuracy and Auditability:</strong> Automated validation processes minimise errors and fraudulent activities, while robust audit trails ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.</li><li><strong>Cost Savings and Optimisation:</strong> Streamlined processes and policy enforcement identify opportunities for cost savings and optimisation, maximising value for taxpayers.</li></ul><h2>Standard statements</h2><p>Entities should:</p><ul><li>ensure their ERP TEMS solution delivers capabilities as specified and defined below</li><li>document their implementation in a way that maps modules to the capabilities and processes specified in this standard, enabling traceability and future reuse.</li></ul><h2>Travel and Expense Management (TEMS) value stream</h2><p>The Travel and Expense value stream is realised through the following capabilities:</p><h3>Expense Management</h3><p>Management, creation, and accounting for expenses raised in relation to travel and broader entity responsibilities. This includes capture of receipts, auditing, approvals, and facilitation of amounts to be paid.</p><h4>Processes and definitions</h4><ul><li><strong>Remit Cash Advance/Allowance</strong> to pay travel allowances and cash advances as per the entity’s expense policy.</li><li><strong>Manage Expense Claim</strong> to capture receipts, categorise and process expenses.</li><li><strong>Report on Expenses</strong> including various internal and external reporting, such as for Senate Estimates Briefs, Questions on Notice, and ad-hoc reporting.</li></ul><h3>Auditing and Compliance</h3><p>Management and support of assurance activities to assess travel and expense related activities against established standards, policies, and legislation. Including the ability to enforce compliance against agreed standards, policies, and legislation.</p><h4>Processes and definitions</h4><ul><li><strong>Undertake Fraud Awareness Training</strong> for employees to reduce the likelihood of fraud and corruption occurring and when it does, identify it more readily.</li><li><strong>Manage Compliance Rules &amp; Parameters</strong> to ensure adherence to compliance policies set by the entity.</li><li><strong>Manage Compliance Reporting</strong> including various internal and external reporting, such as for Senate Estimates Briefs, Questions on Notice, and ad-hoc reporting.</li><li><strong>Manage Compliance Breaches</strong> to identify failure to comply with established rules, policies, procedures, or guidelines, provide a resolution, and take measures for future prevention.</li></ul><h3>Credit Card Management</h3><p>Management of credit card usage and approvals in relation to an entity's activities. Specifically addresses issuance, on-going use, auditing, and fraud management in relation to credit card use.</p><h4>Processes and definitions</h4><ul><li><strong>Issue and Maintain Credit Cards</strong> (including Travel Cards) which includes application submission, applicant training, approvals and maintaining records.</li><li><strong>Manage Credit Card Transactions</strong> to capture receipts and categorisation of expenses.</li><li><strong>Acquit Credit Card</strong> to evaluate and report the actual expenditure made on the credit card against receipts.</li><li><strong>Authorise Credit Card Expenses</strong> including General Ledger posting and approval to pay.</li><li><strong>Pay Credit Card Providers</strong> via Direct Debit of credit card amounts.</li><li><strong>Cancel Credit Card</strong> includes cancellation of the credit card with the provider and return/destruction of the card.</li></ul><h3>Travel Management</h3><p>End-to-end arrangement and management of individual and group travel activities. Includes creation, management and cessation of travel plans and discrete activities. Travel Management incorporates the use of the whole-of-government Travel Procurement arrangement and any future similar arrangements that may be put in place.</p><h4>Processes and definitions</h4><ul><li><strong>Maintain Traveller Profile</strong> including traveller’s name, address, date of birth, contact details, frequent flyer number(s), passport number, etc.</li><li><strong>Manage Travel Request Approval</strong> enable and document approval processes in line with the entity's financial delegations, and respecting hierarchy.</li><li><strong>Manage Itinerary Segments</strong> including specific parts of the trip, type of transport, type of accommodation.</li><li><strong>Book Travel</strong> including travel dates, flights, accommodation, etc.</li><li><strong>Issue Pre-Travel Advisory Warnings</strong> and notification of travel restrictions before travel commences.</li><li><strong>Monitor and Respond to Global Events</strong> to identify restrictions and other major events impacting travel while it is being undertaken.</li><li><strong>Calculate and Pay Travel Allowances</strong> paid at a certain amount and at a certain time, determined by the entity's travel policy or enterprise agreement.</li><li><strong>Acquit Travel</strong> to evaluate and report the actual expenditure in relation to the travel.</li><li><strong>Report on Travel</strong> through various internal and external reporting processes, including to Senate Estimates Briefs, Questions on Notice, and ad-hoc reporting.</li></ul>